Título: Identity Clash

03/09/2023 • adapted
	After I die, will I be sentenced to purgatory, reviewing every misconduct of the shameful condemned life I chose? Will my soul and existence be erased from this and every other parallel universe, for simply choosing to live my best life? For choosing love rather than misery, for following the purpose I was born for, for being who I am? God, please understand that I can no longer hold the burden you trusted me with. I don’t think it’s a fair deal; to sacrifice a lifetime of dreams and expectations for a world to come whose existence is not even proven. I grew up thinking that I did not belong; trivial teenage things such as flirting and dating, or even giving my first kiss, are distant and prohibited. Maturing, I realized that I am neither flawed, nor the only one to feel this way. Either way, I still haven't found the nerve to be proud of it.
	Cinema is meant to set up identification with watchers, but, in my case, it never did. Both my identities are, to an extent, indeed represented, but their crisis-ridden encounter is not. No movie I've ever known has pictured such an identity clash which one feels like it must accept posthumous eternal penance in exchange for love. If I could only share my restlessness with loved ones, then wearing a kippah wouldn’t feel like wearing a disguise, but trusting anyone with such a lifetime secret seems impossible, as the lack of identification in the pictures laid the groundwork for the illusory sense that I’m alone in this journey; the fake sense that I’m-the-only-confused-jewish-gay-boy-scared-of-being-sent-to-hell-after-I-die-in-the-whole-world.
	I’m by far not the first. But, for the ones coming after me, I desire to go down the rabbit hole for a reality where hoping for an authentic future is intrinsic for every carrier of contrasting identities out there. For such a lifetime journey, I plan to take the arts and crafts of the seventh art with me. I aspire to employ filmmaking as a tool to magnify the dimensions of queer representation in cinema. What stories am I therefore supposed to tell?