Título: “Come visit us”: A note on apartheid.

04/11/2024 • original
	Checkpoints, institutionalized discrimination, racial superiority, “limited ability to move freely”, and “no right to vote” are phrases often used by “peace activists” addressing the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. Such a handful of bland labels are typically employed as charismatic tools of mass distortion within the international community. In the ongoing digital age and within the decentralized narratives of social media, “trends” shape the popular imaginary to once unimaginable extents.
	In such a dynamic environment as the social media ecosystem, notability depends solely on likes and views. Mastering the infamous algorithm suddenly became the way to belonging, as well as keeping up with whatever trending topics were in the spotlight. Raising flags for subverted causes becomes cool, and “from the river to the sea” & “globalize the intifada” chants, as well as watermelon emojis, take over the media calling for the condemnation of Israel as an apartheid state.
	Entitling a role model democracy as a perpetrator of apartheid is borderline outrageous, once each of its rationales defies the limits of critical thinking. A foundational walkthrough over demography — respectively acknowledging the status of Arab-Israelis and Palestinians as citizens and foreigners, and a primal clarification of local policies are enough evidence. It just takes a sincere look from the inside, however, to for once and for all perceive Israeli social dynamics as they are: equal.
	As Gilad Erdan, former Israeli ambassador to the UN, responded to haters in 2021, there’s no better comeback than suggesting critics “Come visit us!” and assess our sociopolitical scenario in locus. It takes the bare exercise of critical analysis to assess ethnic minorities’ presence within any area of the country’s social setting. You’ll catch a ride to the hotel with a Jewish bus driver, be assisted by an Arab-Israeli police officer, and grab lunch in a delicious Ethiopian place.