Título: Political polarization in Brazilian modern society
26/12/2022 • edited

	For the past years, as a consequence of Brazil’s political and economic chaos, Brazilian society found itself divided into two predominant distinct political ideologies. In a pre-election scenario, an individual’s identification as right-winged or left-winged defines their identity, becoming a cause for controversies, hate crimes, and blasphemy.
	Originating from a strong emotional involvement with our opinions, the following issue stands for a merge of ideals with values. As explained by Micah Goodman on Catch-67 (2017), individuals found difficulty in differentiating themselves and their identities from their ideals. This phenomenon is categorized as extreme materialism, which is similar to the concept of idealism. The division of society into groups was also found in Israel and in the United States. After the 1967 war, Israelis categorized themselves according to their point of view regarding the return of conquered lands, while during the 2020 elections, Americans chose to support either a Republican or a Democrat candidate. In the political scope, voters adopt candidates as pets and endlessly stick to their opinions, ignoring social and cultural differences, and risking affective relationships. In such a scenario, the ones who decide not to take a side, are actually the most sensible.
	Political polarization affected how people communicate with each other, creating obstacles for bonding and pacific conversations. Instead of fostering a coexistence and beneficial relationship, society took sides, and chaos took place. Individuals now rather hold pre-conceived thoughts and strictly defend their opinions no matter the costs. As seen in both media and real life, conversations become aggressive debates, and potential friendships become rising enmities. People no longer have the ability to peacefully debate with divergents or opposers. Friendships, partnerships, love, and family relationships, are abruptly destroyed due to political and ideological differences, and the inability to conduct a proper discussion.
	Such an issue is not a new phenomenon, and this is not the first time that its consequences are recognizable in Brazil. At the beginning of the 20th century, during Getúlio Vargas’ military dictatorship, Brazilian society found itself categorized by their support of fascism or communism, integralism or allianceists, and as defenders of the popular social strata or not. The effects of such polarization can be identified in major pieces of art produced back then; its biggest examples are Brazilian literary works from between the 30s and 60s. In most famous literary works from Jorge Amado, a Brazilian renowned writer, the author’s side on polarization is revealed through the construction and usage of a typically pro-communism model for character development. In Captains of the Sands (1939), the author expresses his support for the popular social strata and for communism, demonstrating the rebellion of the oppressed against the system. However, the storyline of the event is told through Pedro Bala’s side. The book’s protagonist follows the pro-communism model for character development through his society’s lower strata origins, and rebelling himself against exclusion and negligence. In summary, the media was always a proper tool for the disclosure and persuasion of political ideologies, contributing to societal polarization.
	Not just literature, but other media forms were constantly used for the same purpose. As a tool for demonizing Jews, antisemitic propaganda was disclosed through the press by the Nazis, and photography was used as a tool for capturing their “work of art” in concentration camps, as seen in Netflix’s movie The Photographer of Mauthausen (2018). Nowadays, social media has taken the role that in the past belonged to other media forms. Digital communication platforms have been the main responsible for boosting political polarization in the past years. The rise of those platforms, and the abusive algorithms that follow them, deprive users of access to diversified points of view. A lack of exposure to diversity leads us to the sense that we all share similar values, and that the minority who doesn’t, is wrong. In addition, the spreading of fake news contributed to the establishment of a distorted image of opposition, a factor that created a visualization of divergence as monsters. This kind of problem blooms especially inside digital cliques and clans. In such spaces, the lack of exposure to diverse ideals is even less, and the omission of reality as well as the spread of fake news is higher. Isolation in those places increases people’s exposure to distorted facts and mistakenly portrays opposing figures.
	We are now in a stage where the majority of people are already consumed by their opinions and points of view. The critical state of political polarization, in which our nation currently finds itself, seems to be irreversible. For the few remaining, I ask you to realize that the world is not an ideological battlefield. For somewhere where free speech is strictly followed, to the extent of the other’s freedom, we should always recognize that we are more than the ideals we defend.

GOODMAN, Micah. O Impasse de 1967. Translated by Debora Fleck. São Paulo, É Realizações, 2020.

SCHWARCZ, Lilia, & GOLDSTEIN, Ilana. O Universo de Jorge Amado. Companhia das Letras, 2009.

TARGARONA, Mar. The Photographer of Mauthausen, Netflix, 2018.

KUBIN, Emily. The role of (social) media in political polarization: a systematic review, Taylor & Francis Online, 2021 <https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/full/10.1080/23808985.2021.1976070>

ORLOWSKI, Jeff. 2020. The Social Dilemma, Netflix.